# Temperature-Monitoring-System.
We will record the temperature using the LM35 sensor. Once we have collected the temperature data, we will send alerts via E-mail and SMS when the temperature value crosses a theshold.
The project is an evident example of IoT in action and it deals with the sensing of temperature with the help of LM35 inorder to monitor the temperature of cold storage.
LM35 is a temperature sensor that senses the temperature of the surrounding environment and generates the analog output voltage. This analog voltage produced by LM35 is given as input to bolt A0 Pin. Then bolt converts the analog value to 10 bit digital value. This digital data is sent by a cloud throw bolt.
Different types of products can be configured in a bolt cloud. Here, the LM35 temperature sensor is an input device because it gathers data from the connected sensors and sends it to the cloud at a set interval.
#Objective
It’s very important in various industries to maintain the temperature of the medicines in the threshold range and becomes very convenient while informing or alerting the owner if the temperature is about to go beyond the set threshold value, our project does the same job of saving lot of products from damaging by informing it’s owner even before the temperature reaches beyond the threshold value set via warnings. Here we mainly focus on cold storage industry which while growing at a rate of 30% annually is losing 133 billion rupees every year due to shortage of cold storage facility, The number of cold storage facilities is directly connected to limited energy resources and power outages.
